---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Reflecting on Smart Questions"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-09-11
published: true
labels:
  - ICS 314
---


“How to ask questions the smart way” by Eric Raymond, is a guide to help people ask technical questions more effectively and in return get useful answers from the open source community. Even before asking your question, Raymond says we have to research it to see if the answer already exists, if it doesn't or we need more information then we start forming our questions. The questions should be precise and informative to the right experts in the right group and you should make sure you are using the proper language, being polite and your question is well written. You also want to make sure you follow up once you find your solution, make sure to share what worked, sharing helps to contribute to the community’s knowledge. One of the biggest key points in asking questions the right way is to avoid asking for the solution, when just asking for the solution it shows laziness and takes away from true learning. By following Eric Raymond’s guidelines you are able to ask more effective questions and in return increase the chances of receiving helpful and insightful answers from the community.
While searching on StackOverflow, a question that stood out to me is one by a student. The student provides the assignment that he has as well as his current unsuccessful attempts and outcomes, as well as provides what he so far predicts is his problem. The question is thought out and his problem and question is clearly stated. In return the student received clear and specific responses and there were a few different methods to achieving his goal. The student commented on the solution he went with as well as replied to the commenter and checked the answer as the best fit for his question. The thoroughness of the questions and answers in this example reflects on how detailed questions lead to more productive discussions.
	Another question asked on Stack Overflow demonstrates how violating Raymond’s guidelines does not lead to effective help. This example was one that was taken off of Stack Overflow but is one talked about by users who were frustrated by the post. The post comments on noticing how the quality of many questions on Stack Overflow is bad, unclear and a feeling of a waste of time. In his situation, the question post that he is referring to was unclear, did not give much context and just wanted the solution, which made the commenter very frustrated. He perceived the user behind the question to not have done research on his problem and did not want help to find it, in return it made the commenter feel like the user was wasting their time. Examples like these on Stack Overflow demonstrates why asking technical questions more efficiently is so important as well as being a responsible user on Stack Overflow. 
	Overall to be a responsible user on Stack Overflow, users should use Eric Raymond’s guidelines. When asking a question to Stack Overflow or even asking any for help from anyone, a great approach is to isolate the problem you are trying to solve, check for resources already available and then if you still need more help, use the guidelines to make sure your question is asked efficiently. 
